# How to contribute to `autoware_lanelet2_map_validator`

Your contribution is welcome to achieve a broad view of validation for lanelet2 maps.
This document gives you the instructions on how to add a validator to `autoware_lanelet2_map_validator`.
Please take a look at the [Design Concept](#design-concept) and follow the [Contribution Guide](#contribution-guide).

## Design Concept

The main goal of `autoware_lanelet2_map_validator` is to validate whether the lanelet2 map matches the vector map requirements for Autoware.
`autoware_lanelet2_map_validator` achieves this by running a list of small validators. Each vector map requirement will be validated by one or more validators. It is recommended to keep validators small and they don't have to be unique to a specific requirement so that we can broaden the map requirements. (It doesn't mean that a validator should output only one kind of error!)

The list of small validators will be defined as a JSON file (see [`autoware_requirement_set.json`](../autoware_requirement_set.json) for an example), and the output will also be a JSON file that appends validation results to a copy of the input. See [How to use `autoware_lanelet2_map_validator`](../README.md/#how-to-use) for further information about how the input and output are processed.

Please note that the validators are categorized according to [the vector map requirements written in the Autoware Documentation](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/design/autoware-architecture/map/map-requirements/vector-map-requirements-overview/). If there are any suggestions for new categories please let the pull request (PR) reviewers know. The available categories as of now are

- Lane
- Stop line
- Intersection
- Traffic light
- Crosswalk
- Area
- Others

## Contribution Guide

This section is aimed for contributers who want to add their own validators. If you want to change the basis process of `autoware_lanelet2_map_validator`, please open a PR and discuss with the maintainers.

### 1. Implement your validator

`autoware_lanelet2_map_validator` is based on the [Lanelet2 library provided by fzi-forschungszentrum-informatik](https://github.com/fzi-forschungszentrum-informatik/Lanelet2). Contributers are encouraged to make their validators by following the class structure shown in [`validator_template.cpp`](../src/validators/validator_template.cpp) and [`validator_template.hpp`](../src/validators/validator_template.hpp). Looking into other implementations also might be helpful.

#### Restrictions for path structure

- The source file (`.cpp`) must belong to `src/validators/\<CATEGORY\>/`
- Avoid source file names that is same to the one in other categories.
- The header file (`.hpp`) must belong to `src/include/lanelet2_map_validator/validators/\<CATEGORY\>/`
- Currently, there are no naming rules for source and header files, but the pair of source and header files should have the same name.

#### Restrictions for validator class implementation

- Define the name of the validator in the header file (`.hpp` file).
  - The name must follow the structure `aaa.bbb.ccc`
    - The first part (`aaa`) must be either `mapping`, `routing` or `rule`
    - The second part (`bbb`) should be either `general`, `lane`, `stop_line`, `intersection`, `traffic_light`, `crosswalk`, `area`, `others`.
    - The third part can be anything unless it is hard to recognize the validators feature.
  - The issue code of the validator will be generated by this name. It removes the first part of the name, converts it to an upper snake case, and adds a number for classification. (e. g. `Bbb.Ccc-001`)
- Write your implementation in the `operator()` function that outputs a [Issues (a.k.a vector\<Issue\>) object](https://github.com/fzi-forschungszentrum-informatik/Lanelet2/blob/master/lanelet2_validation/include/lanelet2_validation/Issue.h). Not all of the implementation has to be written in the operator that you can privately define and use functions in your validator class.
- Since `autoware_lanelet2_map_validator` is made to output issue codes, please add an issue code prefix with square brackets on top of your issue message.
  - You may use the `issue_code_prefix` function to generate the issue code prefix.
  - Even the validator only detects a single type of issue, please include the number `001` to your issue code.
  - The issue code must correspond to the issue message one-to-one.
- Currently, there are no rules to decide the severity of the issue. If you're not confident to your severity decisions please discuss with your PR reviewers.
- Other coding rules are mentioned in the [Autoware Documentation](https://autowarefoundation.github.io/autoware-documentation/main/contributing/). However, this coding rule doesn't hold if it conflicts with the Lanelet2 library.

### 2. Write a test code

Contributors must also provide test codes to ensure your validator is working properly and be able to be tested again when changes occur to the validator in the future.

#### Restrictions for path structure

- The source code (`.cpp`) must belong to `test/src/`.
  - The test codes are not categorized because there are few codes, but might be categorized in the future.
- The source code name should be `test_<ORIGINAL_SOURCE_NAME>.cpp`
- The maps (`.osm`) for testing must belong to `test/data/map/\<CATEGORY\>/`
- The JSON files (`.json`) for testing must belong to `test/data/json/`

#### Restrictions for test code implementation

- Tests should be executable by `colcon test`. It is strongly recommended to use the [gtest (googletest) format](https://github.com/google/googletest).
- If possible, inherit the `MapValidationTester` class for common map loading process.
- The test code must contain the follwing.
  - A test function that checks whether the validator is available.
  - A test function for each unique issue the validator can detect. It is recommended to create a small lanelet2 map for each unique issue.
    - In this test, please also check that the issue code is emitted as it is expected.
  - A test function that no issues occur when validating `test/data/map/sample_map.osm`. If `sample_map.osm` violates the validation or doesn't contain the primitive to validate, please fix or add the primitives to it.

### 3. Test the entire validator

Please check that the `autoware_lanelet2_map_validator` works perfectly.

1. Execute `colcon test --packages-select autoware_lanelet2_map_validator --event-handlers console_cohesion+` and confirm that all tests have passed.
2. Execute the following command and confirm that no issues appear.

```bash
ros2 run autoware_lanelet2_map_validator autoware_lanelet2_map_validator -p mgrs -m <PATH_TO_sample_map.osm> -i <PATH_TO_autoware_requirement_set.json> -o ./
```

### 4. Write a document

Contributors must leave a document to explain what the validator can do.
The document must explain the following.

- The validator name (The one written in the header file (`.hpp`))
- Feature of the validator
- In which source code the validator is implemented.
- A table of issues that the validator can detect. The following details are required.
  - Issue Code
  - Message
  - Severity
  - Primitive
  - Description of the issue
  - Approach to fix the issue

### 5. Create a pull request

Create a pull request to the [autowarefoundation/autoware_tools](https://github.com/autowarefoundation/autoware_tools) repository.
